---
title: Sitecore Install Framework - SUG DK
tags:
    - Powershell
    - Sitecore Install Framework
---

A few weeks back, I was in Copenhagen and was able to talk about the _Sitecore
Install Framework (SIF)_ at the [Danish Sitecore UserGroup][1].

Originally, I was hoping to just listen in to see how people were getting on
with SIF.  After speaking with [Anders Laub][2], he offered the opportunity to
present and have a more hands-on involvement in the workshop.

This led to setting up a repo with examples and some utility scripts
to help get people up and running.

In general, it seems SIF is being used and is helping, but there is concern
that it has made Sitecore more complex to install.  This is a totally
valid concern which I hope to address in a few up-coming blog posts.

For now, check out the examples from the user group and let me know of any
questions.

## Repo
The repo is available at https://github.com/Kieranties/SIfSug

<div class="github-card" data-github="kieranties/sifsug" data-width="100%" data-height="130px" data-theme="default" data-target="blank"></div>
<script src="//cdn.jsdelivr.net/github-cards/latest/widget.js"></script>

The repo contains:
+ An _Environment_ folder with scripts to configure the instance where SIF will
run and Sitecore will be installed, a script to configure SQL with contained
databases, and also a script to install Solr as a windows service under SSL.
+ An _Example_ folder with examples for each of the key features in SIF.
+ An _Uninstall_ folder demonstrating how to write your own configuration to
uninstall Sitecore.

At the root of the repo you'll also find the install script and the
[parameters.ps1][3] script which actually controls what is installed.

## Running Locally
The repo contains all the information needed to get up and running locally.
Just follow the guidance in the [README][4].

> You **will** need to modify the values in `parameters.ps1` when it comes to the install!

The examples contained in the _examples_ folder are the same examples used in
the SIF Fundamentals series so you'll also be able to follow along with the
videos below:

{% include video id="videoseries?list=PL1jJVFm_lGnwA8Mfwvpt0yFdsYKL5yT43" provider="youtube" %}


[1]:https://www.meetup.com/Sitecore-User-Group-Denmark/
[2]:https://twitter.com/anderslaub
[3]:https://github.com/Kieranties/SIfSug/blob/master/parameters.ps1
[4]:https://github.com/Kieranties/SIfSug/blob/master/Readme.md