---
title: Git Next - Using Git Aliases for Presentations
tags:
    - Git
    - Scripting
header:
  image: /assets/gifs/gitnext.gif
---

I recently presented at [Sugcon EU 2019] (more on that in a soon to be written
blog post).  I've previously presented or taken part in presenting workshops and
talks, but this was the first time that I knew I would be limited in time to
deliver everything I wanted to cover.

The talk covered some features built by me and my team at [Sitecore], so there
were some fundamental pieces of code I wanted to demonstrate.  Furthermore,
I wanted to show the _progress_ of the code as decisions were made. While
setting up the code samples it became clear that I needed a quick way to 'reset'
my working directory, while also quickly bringing in source code changes _and_
ensuring things were in a good state to build/test/debug. Of course, I would
also like code samples to be easily handed over to external developers as soon
as possible after the presentation.

This gave me a few requirements:
1. Code should be in a repo - Git was the obvious choice here.
2. I should be able to reset the repo - So I can always begin from a clean state
3. I should be able to progress to the next 'step' quickly
4. Each step should be cleaned of any previous changes - If I go off-piste and
   modify the code, moving forward puts me in a clean state
5. If possible, I should be able to get notes when moving to the next step

> The final requirement came about after practicing the talk. To easily switch
> between the slide deck and Visual Studio meant I wouldn't be able to see
> speaker notes.

## A quick detour on git aliases

[Git aliases] are **_awesome_**.  Seriously.  Aliases are a very simple feature
that enables anyone to become a power user.  Or at last, simplify their life :-)

An alias is exactly as it sounds, an alternative string to execute a command.
The main advantage is lengthy commands can become trival; complicated arguments
don't need to be entered each time.

E.g. running `git config alias.co checkout` in a repo will create the
`co` alias.  Now running `git co` will do a checkout (okay, not a lengthy
command, but you get the gist).

Aliases are persisted in the `.git\config` file:
```
[alias]
	co = checkout
```

> You can also persist aliases globally by passing the `--global` flag in the
> command: `git config --global alias.co checkout`. They will then be persisted
> in your global config under your user folder. e.g. `~/<username>/.gitconfig`

[Advanced aliases] are where things get really interesting.  They allow
you to write arbitrary bash scripts which can do anything you want. You can
also call out to other shells or executables as needed (but consider the OS and
environment you're running on). You can even pass arguments to your alias.

## Implementing Git Next

With some basic understanding of git, and the flexibility of aliases, I was then
able to consider an approach to the requirements.

1. Code should be in a repo - Put code in git.
2. Ability to reset - `git clean` is the key
3. Ability to progress to 'next step' quickly - Numerical tags make this trivial
4. Each step should be cleaned - `git clean` again
5. Ability to get notes when moving to the next step - Annotated tags!

### Annotated tags are the real star

Using tags allows the repo to be set up and the demonstration path to be
decided separately.  Tags can be specified anywhere in the repo, allowing
progress to jump across branches or even jump backwards in time.  By naming the
tags in a simple sequence, we can easily identify the next tag based on the
current tags name.

Annotated tags allow the fifth requirement to be delivered.  By annotating tags
with some helpful comments we're able to give notes during the demo, if needed.

## The setup
I created my git repo and began work on the demo.  As I completed key features I
tagged them so that I knew it was a point to highlight.  Once I had completed
the code I tidied things up so there were fewer commits, but this wasn't
really necessary.

Each point that I wanted to highlight was tagged with an annotated tag
where each tag was named sequentially from '1':
```powershell
git tag 1 -m "This is a note"
git tag 2 -m "This is a multiline note`n*Line endings will vary`n*depending on your shell"
...
```

## The aliases
I edited the `.git\config` and added the following:
{% gist d0f7a411af95019c56e40541d9be3897 %}

The commands can be broken down as follows:
1. `git start` - Receives an optional number (the tag to select). If no number
   is provided '1' is selected by default. The repo is reset to that tag,
   additional files are cleaned and then the tag message is displayed
1. `git next` - Gets the current tag, increments by 1, then calls `git start`
2. `git prev` - Gets the current tag, decrements by 1, then calls `git start`

The aliases can then be used as follows:
```powershell
# Start at the beginning of the demo
> git start
# Move to the next step
> git next
# Move to the previous step
> git prev
# Move to an arbitrary step
> git start <int>
```

As you can see from the gif, I was now able to move around my repo with ease,
getting notes where needed _and_ be confident that each step gave me a clean
base to work from.  Things even worked happily with Visual Studio, where changes
to the csproj were picked up and loaded without causing issues.

I'll definitely be using this in demos moving forward.


[Sugcon EU 2019]:https://www.sugcon.eu/
[Sitecore]:https://www.sitecore.com/
[Git aliases]:https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Git-Aliases
[advanced aliases]:https://www.atlassian.com/blog/git/advanced-git-aliases
[DRY]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself